Spaceify application types

There are 3 different types of applications in Spaceify.

1. Spacelets

Spacelets are node.js programs that are run inside a docker container. Their privileges are defined in the splacelet manifest files. 
Spacelets are embedded into web pages.

2. Sandboxed applications 

Sandboxed applications are spacelets that are started when spaceify starts and ended when spaceify ends. Otherwise they are identical to spacelet.

3. Native applications

Native applications are docker images that are run in the privileged mode. See http://blog.docker.io/2013/09/docker-can-now-run-within-docker/ for details.


Every Spaceify application should have its own ip address for access control reasons (access control is enforced with iptables rules), this is achieved with tun/tap devices. 


Example use cases.

Bigscreen Demo

Bigscreen demo consists of 3 components

1. A web page that can load URL:s in a full-screen iframe

This web page is started in a browser in the spaceify network. The javascript on the web page contacts servicediscovery on edge.spaceify.net
and gets the ip and port of the "bigscreen_backend" application. It connects to the application, and starts receiving commands over jsonrpc to load URLs. 

2. Bigscreen sandboxed application 

Bigscreen sandboxed application, when it starts, registres itself to the service discovery with the names "bigscreen" and "bigscreen_backend". Its manifest must state that it
provides "bigscreen" and "bigscreen_backend" services. The "bigscreen_backend" service is declared in the manifest to be an "open_local" service, it means that it can be accessed by any
web page or application in the local network, without any privilleges. The service serves the iframe web page from one port ("bigscreen_backend") and   
and the vimeo spacelet from another port (bigscreen), using jsonrpc. 

3. Vimeo spacelet that is injected to vimeo.com

The manifest of this spacelet states, that this spacelet needs the right to use the "bigscreen" service. The javascript that starts this spacelet is injected into vimeo.com.
When the spacelet starts, it searches for "bigscreen" in the service discovery, gets the ip and port of the bigscreen javascript application, and connects to the service.
From then on it uses jsonrpc to send commands to the "bigscreen" service.



Philips HUE Demo
